ABBY:
Previously on Dance Moms...
You're auditioning for a spot
on the Abby Lee
Dance Company's competition team.
-Congratulations!
-(cheering)
-MELISSA: Your first day.
-My first day.
Your reputation precedes you.
When can Kendall have a solo?
You need to tell your mother
to knock it off.
She's going to get you in trouble.
She came in here,
had this snotty little attitude,
and you back her up.
The dog pound is calling.
-Move along.
-Oh, my God.
Do not put your hands on me.
-Chloe always being second!
-You--Chloe is not second!
You'd better not say that, again!
WOMAN: Does Abby
and the moms know you came here?
They have no idea.
ABBY: You're expelled. You're done.
Get the hell out! Go!
I would never let my child
shake her pom poms
for some boy to go to college for free.
Three and four!
ABBY: You're going to be going
to the Joffrey Ballet School.
MAN: We want to offer Chloe
a scholarship for the summer.
(tense music playing)
(groaning)
We saw! We came!
We kicked apples!
My entire reputation
was humiliated.
Your kids are fine without me.
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms...
The pressure is on you.
You are representing
my entire career.
They need to get over it.
They've been jealous
since Maddie from day one,
and it's still are.
When you least expect it,
I'm going to throw you out there to do it.
We wanted you
to say to her why did you lie?
Why did you lie to me?
Posture right there, girls!
Don't hunch those shoulders!
(tense music playing)
I fell and my foot hurts.
Do you know you forgot A step?
Don't laugh about it. It's not funny.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪Get up!♪
♪Get on the floor!♪
♪My world is with my girls♪
♪Living on the dance floor!♪
(upbeat music playing)
Where's Abby?
Where is she?
I wonder where Abby is.
CHRISTI: She ditched us in Jersey.
Maybe she didn't come home.
Abby's late to pyramid
because she doesn't want to face the moms.
Last time she saw us,
she ditched us and our kids.
And we're going to hold her
accountable for that.
Who thanks Miss Abby
is going to apologize
-for leaving us stranded?
-Oh, God, no.
She never apologizes.
HOLLY: Honestly, I think
there's only one reason
why Abby left the competition
in New Jersey.
And that's because
Maddie forgot her dance.
And it's totally unreasonable.
(cheering and applause)
(groaning)
MADDIE: I want to go again.
Can I please go again?
Maybe she's in the ladies room.
We stood there
for probably a good 30 minutes
and we were wondering
where Abby was.
Because she was nowhere to be found.
I need her.
I mean, my kids need her.
CHRISTI: Does anybody feel
a black cloud approaching?
-MELISSA: Yeah.
-What's the weather forecast?
(laughs)
ABBY: So, I guess it's welcome back.
New York City didn't turn out
exactly the way I had hoped.
ANNOUNCER 1: In 10th place,
"Heard Them First,"
Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering and applause)
ANNOUNCER 1: Hey, there.
Chloe, congratulations.
You were the winner.
ANNOUNCER 2:
Our top Junior Soloist, 891.
CHRISTI: Yay, Chloe!
(cheering and applause)
You didn't only win for yourself.
You won
for the Abby Lee Dance Company.
You won for me,
for my name and my reputation,
-so that was good.
-Thank you.
Holly, you were quite upset with me.
And I didn't see
any tears from you, Abby,
-when my kid ran off the stage.
-I don't care.
-HOLLY: It's a horrific...
I know you don't care,
and that's my point.
I think you assumed
that I was upset
because Maddie ran off the stage,
and you're absolutely right.
And that's why I left.
After Maddie forgetting her dance,
I was at my wit's end.
HOLLY: As a coach, as their teacher,
they all deserve a hug.
Nia had you!
She went to you
when she forgot her dance.
Why don't you be the adult and the leader
and console them first?
KELLY: You yelled at Paige
and told her she was stupid.
And when Maddie does it,
oh, you forgive her and it's okay.
It's not her fault.
I think the case in point is,
is we know that you don't care.
Some kids are just special!
I did not abandon the team.
Nobody pays me
to go to a competition.
I am going there
to be the dance teacher,
not to sit in a room
and babysit their children.
Enough.
My time is very valuable.
I did not call you in here
to discuss this.
We're talking about this week.
You are going
to NexStar Competition in LA.
And those little kids in LA
are good, and you all know that.
In California,
the kids just are fearless.
They know they need to be forthcoming
with their emotions.
Our kids don't do that.
It takes a lot
to draw that personality out of a kid.
So let's start with the pyramid.
Paige, the one thing we talked about
as soon as we got the props...
you have to handle that prop.
You're responsible for that prop.
You can't let it
get away from you.
As soon as you started
the competition,
the prop went right away from you.
Nia, when we were rehearsing
the number you wore a biketard.
And the entire rehearsal,
you pulled at that and pulled at that
and pulled at that.
You can't concentrate
on what you're doing.
Brooke, we get to the Joffrey.
Everybody else runs in
with their pointe shoes on
and you're not going to do pointe.
So they're looking at that
as if, wait a minute,
her ankles should be strong enough
to go on pointe.
Next we have Maddie.
Should you be
at the bottom of the pyramid
because you ran off the stage?
Yes, you should.
You're the responsible one
that everybody counts on.
That's why you're here.
CHRISTI: When Chloe,
Nia and Paige forgot their dance,
they were at the bottom
of the pyramid.
I think that Maddie
is in the middle of the pyramid
because, again, it goes back
to Abby playing favorites.
Next I have Mackenzie.
Mackenzie,
you should be proud of yourself
that you're this high on the pyramid.
It's your charisma,
it's your face
that are moving the audience.
MACKENZIE: I'm excited
that I'm moving up at the pyramid.
And, Chloe, congratulations.
You're on top of the pyramid.
You're going to be featured
in the group number.
We have Chloe doing a solo.
We also have a solo
with Mackenzie.
And I entered a solo for Maddie,
but I'm not going to have her do it.
She needs to get her head on straight.
I've noticed
some subtle changes in Maddie.
She's humbled,
certainly, from her experience.
I think she'll bounce back in time.
And my trio is going to be Chloe,
Brooke, Paige.
And I need you
to be on fire on that stage.
The group number
is called "I Want it Now."
Can I hear you all say that?
I want it now!
ABBY: The group number four this week
is called "I Want it Now."
It's, like, the epitome
of the rich little brat saying,
"I want that, I want that,
I want this, I want that."
That's what we're going for.
Pressure is on.
When we get to that competition
and you walk into that auditorium,
you are up here.
Do you understand?
Yes?
Moms, thank you very much.
You're dismissed.
Girls, let's go.
The dancers at this competition
are going to be fierce.
I need my girls to bring their A game.
I need the mothers
to stop questioning my integrity.
I mean, come on.
The Abby Lee Dance Company
is my life's work.
I need to see that again.
I just want her to do her job.
That means
when you go to a competition,
you sit yourself there
until the competition is over.
-That's part of our fee.
-That is.
And shoulder, shoulder--
while you're sitting there, da, da,
to the beat, to the beat.
She acted like an (bleep).
ABBY: I gave you a pose here.
I gave you a pose.
That was pretty depressing down there.
-I was pretty irritated.
-CHRISTI: She's--she's a--
she's a despicable person.
We know exactly what happened,
and she just changed the truth.
Arms, Chloe!
You know, I'm a little nervous
about Chloe leading this team to victory.
NexStar is one tough competition.
I just wish Maddie
was ready to go
and had her head
back in the game.
Every time something goes wrong,
what, is she going to get up and leave?
I don't think she would, but...
KELLY: I think that we need
to make it known to her
that, you know what,
if you want to leave again,
-go ahead and leave.
-CHRISTI: Go ahead.
We're fine.
-We don't need you.
How do you feel about it, Melissa?
Well, she lied to me so I was--
I mean, I'm just upset because of that.
She told me
she was going home to her mom,
so I called her a car.
She told me the reason she left the team
in New Jersey
was because her mom is really ill.
So I believed that she was going home
to see her mom.
But she was really embarrassed
with Maddie forgetting her solo.
ABBY: Posture when you roll!
Arms are behind you!
KELLY: So now the truth is out.
Melissa knew that Abby
was going to leave the competition.
She even helped her.
She called the cab!
But did you say anything to her,
like, "Abby why did you do that to me?
-You made me look like an idiot."
-Nope.
Well, I could think of
is if Abby is supposed
to be your friend, Melissa,
that was not a very friendly thing to do.
A friend doesn't do that a friend.
-CHRISTI: But you won't play ball.
-You in go in say something
because you're the one she lied to.
It should be you
because you're the one who she lied to.
-So it should be you...
-KELLY: And you're the one
that called the cab for her to leave.
...having the confrontation
with her, not us.
KELLY: And it was your daughter
that she wanted...
MELISSA: I feel that Christi and Kelly
can care less
if I was mistreated by Abby.
They just want to cause
trouble and drama.
Let's look at the bright side.
We're going to LA.
I'm just glad
Cathy's not going to be there
because she really annoys me.
She's so--she's very obnoxious
in the audience.
CHRISTI: I've never seen someone
so happy about ninth place, in my life.
-Woo!
-KELLY: I know.
-(laughter)
(quirky music playing)
INSTRUCTOR: One, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight.
CATHY: We came in full force,
and we beat
the Abby Lee dancers.
I think my team
totally upstaged Abby's dancers.
I'm on top of the world right now.
Okay, so I called you guys in here
because I got the best news today.
Taylor's mom and dad
told me that the doctor has released her.
(cheering)
So that means
that she's back competing with us.
Oh, Taylor, apple of my eye,
girlfriend,
you don't need those crutches.
Welcome back, Taylor!
CATHY: Come here.
Look at the cake.
Is that awesome or what?
Taylor, we are so glad that you are back.
You just can't imagine!
I'm so happy
that you can dance, again.
I don't ever want
to see this thing, again.
We are given the boot the boot.
(applause)
We have been rehearsing
like maniacs.
And we intend to beat
the Abby Lee dancers again,
and again, and again.
Cheers!
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: You need to look
all the way to that center judge,
and you're not.
You stopped your vision
right there at Gianna, and quit.
All right,
let's go again from the top.
(slow music playing)
ABBY: Chloe's dance
is entitled "Keep Burning."
She's wearing a red
two-piece costume.
It's just a hot number.
She's on fire.
It's lyrical contemporary.
It's a nice number for her.
The song is good, it's short.
Let's hope she doesn't forget it.
I'll tell you, you've been on the top
of the pyramid before
but you haven't stayed there.
CHRISTI: There is so much pressure
on Chloe this week.
You know,
Abby's mantra is it's easy to get
to the top of the pyramid,
it's hard to stay there.
So, of course,
she wants her to fail.
If you want to be
a professional dancer,
you can't go out on stage
and forget the dance.
It doesn't work that way.
You got lucky, kid.
I've been on Chloe this week
because she has a lot on her plate.
She is serving Maddie's role.
Shoulders.
-Good. Very nice.
-(applause)
CHRISTI: I think it's time to go.
-I think we're done, aren't we?
-I think so.
Melissa, I think
you have a few words
you want to say to Abby,
and I'd like to hear them.
MELISSA: I feel that the moms
are bullying me right now.
I realize that Abby lied to me,
but I have to deal with it
on my own terms,
and privately with Abby,
and not in front of all the moms.
(tense music playing)
No Problem.
Good luck with all of that.
-WOMAN: (indistinct)
-ABBY: All right.
What can I help you all with?
MELISSA: I'm getting
so much slack from everybody
that, you know, I always kiss your butt
and everything, and...
They need to get over it.
They've been jealous
since Maddie from day one,
and it's still are.
KELLY: I think we just want to know
that our kids have you to back them up.
We travel as a team.
We go as a team,
we leave as a team.
ABBY: Well, no.
I'm not going to sit here
and promise that forever. No.
I--I think they're all good to go
on their own.
ABBY: I think you're all crazy.
You don't pay for my trip.
You don't pay my hotel bill.
You don't pay my airfare.
Those are just a bunch
of excuses you made to cover your (bleep).
-You can't be here. Dial 911.
-CHRISTI: Yeah.
-ABBY: Get her out.
-Okay.
(upbeat music playing)
MACKENZIE:
My solo is called "Perfect Fit."
I do a lot of tricks in my solo,
and I'm really excited.
ABBY: Eyes up!
Do that left assemble
and do that left stag
and get up and touch your head,
you little lazy butt.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: There you go.
That was beautiful.
Take in every judge.
Hi, over there.
Even though
the one in front of you--
look at these people, too.
I feel Mackenzie has matured.
I'm fabulous.
Look at me. Now go.
SINGER: ♪Yeah, yeah♪
♪Search high and low but just...♪
Keep going.
Smile.
Don't look at the floor.
She just loves this number,
and that's half the battle.
That has to be...
Come on.
Let me see some sass.
She's excited about it.
She loves the difficulty of it,
and she loves the prop.
Yay!
You remembered it all!
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Let's spread apart.
Let's warm up a little bit.
This week Chloe is the leader
of the routine.
Can she handle it?
I don't know.
She's used to looking at Maddie
on the corner of her eye
to see what to do next.
Girls, get on the floor.
Start to roll, just Nia.
Okay, good.
Turn--no, no, no.
Turn this way.
If Chloe wants to stay
on top of that pyramid,
this is how
I'm going to train her.
Boom! Chloe, you're up tall. Big.
This has to be all about you.
Let's go.
HOLLY: Our conversation yesterday
at the front desk
kind of threw me for a loop, Melissa.
I got to just put it out there.
I Thought we were going downstairs,
if memory serves me correctly,
that we were going to have your back
and you were
going to introduce the topic.
MELISSA: I said to Abby
that everybody's been on my case
all the time.
It's all about Maddie,
Maddie, Maddie,
Maddie, Maddie, Maddie, Maddie.
The real reason
she brought me into the bathroom,
she told me,
"I need to go home to my mother."
And I believed her. And she...
CHRISTI: Fine.
But you sat up here and said
that you were mad that she lied to you.
So we said,
go tell her that you're upset.
We wanted you to say to her,
why did you lie?
Why did you lie to me?
CHRISTI:
You have to step up to the plate.
I know. I know. I know.
CHRISTI: And that was a perfect
opportunity for you to do it,
and you threw us under the bus.
-It's so hard for me. I don't know.
-It's hard for all of us!
Melissa always says
that we're so mean to her,
that we never take her side.
But she lied to us, again.
So how can I trust somebody
who constantly lies?
I'm a nervous wreck
when it comes to confrontation.
KELLY:
But you sat up here and said--
but you're still not sticking up
for yourself. And...
MELISSA: I know. I never do.
I'm a doormat!
(upbeat music playing)
KELLY: Brooke, Chloe and Paige
are doing a trio,
and it's called
"Girls in the House."
I definitely think
this is going to be a challenging trio
because we have three girls
that dance three different styles.
ABBY: Okay.
Step out on your left foot
and, like, take your arms
and brush them back
and stick your rear end out like this.
Boom.
Ba, ball change.
Five, six--ready, right here?
Five--Maddie,
can you demonstrate for me?
(tense music playing)
CHRISTI: I'm a little confused
why the swing, Maddie,
is now demonstrating
how the trio's properly done
to the girls in the trio.
Is that just another way
for Abby to rub it in their face,
that she feels that Maddie
is the best dancer in the group?
Maddie, count Chloe's section
and make sure
you give me the right counts.
Chloe has to realize,
this is how hard I push Maddie.
This is how I train girls
to get to the top of that pyramid.
Squat and touch the floor.
Your feet should be together.
Maddie, watch Chloe
to make sure she's doing her part,
because I keep looking at Paige.
MADDIE: It was really hard watching Chloe
be on the top of the pyramid.
I'm really happy
for Chloe, but it just, like,
feels weird to me
because I don't have a solo.
Brooke, you have to walk
right around yourself
and be in the front.
Paige, you're too far away
from the other two!
Move over, Paige!
KELLY: I don't understand
our choreography lately.
HOLLY: Mm-mm.
It just seems so stupid.
HOLLY: It's not impressive.
ABBY: Walk!
KELLY: I mean,
we do a lot of posing,
a lot of walking around.
And, you know, like,
where's the technique?
Get in that releve!
(thump)
KELLY: I hate that.
MELISSA: I do, too.
They're going
to break their knees.
ABBY: No judge wants to see you
bang your knee on the floor.
Ready, girls? Go.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Girls,
we need three judges, please.
I've asked Paige,
Nia and Maddie
to just sit down for a minute
and critique Chloe's solo
as she does it.
You know, a good dancer
gets better by watching others.
(slow music playing)
MELISSA: Usually,
Maddie has a lot of pressure on her
with a trio,
a group dance, and a solo.
I'm so glad she only has to worry
about the group dance this week.
That just means
more added pressure to Chloe.
♪I'll keep on burning♪
CHRISTI: I don't know
where Abby comes up with these ideas.
We try to teach our kids
to be supportive of each other,
not judgmental.
So you're putting everyone
in an awkward position.
ABBY: Okay, comments.
PAIGE: I thought it was good.
But my correction
was whenever she flexed her foot...
ABBY: Okay. I saw that.
Go ahead,
tell her what she was doing wrong.
NIA: I didn't really like judging Chloe
because she's our friend.
And if my friends
were judging my dance,
it would make me feel
very uncomfortable.
I thought it was good.
It's just I think
that you need to make
more eye contact throughout the dance.
ABBY: On every step
should be a moment
where you're looking at somebody.
-I looked at her eyes.
-But you can't argue with the people.
You have to say, okay, thank you.
And you need
to apply it to yourself.
People wouldn't waste the time
to tell you if it wasn't true.
MADDIE: It's just the little,
like, in-between stuff
that is a little bit, like, messy.
ABBY: All right. The group is next.
We are flying 3,000 miles away.
Nobody there knows
the Abby Lee Dance Company.
You are representing
my entire career.
This week,
Chloe is the leader of the routine.
She needs to step it up.
She needs to be in charge.
It's all about you.
Maddie's not doing a solo.
Paige, Nia, they're not doing solos.
Be there.
Understood? All right.
Let's go with the music from the top.
(upbeat music playing)
Hit! Hit!
Chloe's in charge of this group.
She's the first one
out on the stage.
Push!
Turn! Go, kick!
Come on!
Whether we succeed
or not rests on her shoulders.
You're late, Chloe. You can't be late.
It's all up to her.
I'm telling you,
the pressure is on you.
You can't screw
that whole thing up.
CHLOE: This week, Miss Abby
assigned me to a solo, a trio,
and I was featured
in the group number.
So I kind of felt pressure.
I was a little bit nervous.
ABBY: You're guessing.
And you need Maddie
to tell you when to do it.
That's the problem.
You need to know the music.
(upbeat music playing)
GIANNA: Two, three,
four, down, up, up.
That was--that was closer.
-MELISSA: Her hip hurts?
-Yeah.
GIANNA: You okay, Chlo?
What's wrong?
My hip hurts.
Just stand.
You--you can mark the turns.
What hurts?
All right.
Sit down for a second.
Do you think there's ice?
Could I give her some ice?
Five, six, seven, eight...
CHRISTI: As Chloe's rehearsing,
I really can see that something is wrong.
(suspenseful music playing)
Yeah.
It's been bugging you, huh?
Is it--is it your same boo-boo?
No. It's a different one.
What happened?
I mean, my right here
when I was turning.
It's--it's your hip flexors.
If it hurts, I'd rather have you rest
and be ready
than just to hurt yourself more
in rehearsal.
Yeah.
CHRISTI: I'm worried
that Chloe's injured.
And I don't want Chloe
to injure herself
because she's afraid to speak up
and say that she's hurt.
Open your mouth and say something
if your leg hurts.
-Okay?
-Mm-hmm.
Okay. All right.
Thank you.
CHRISTI: Chloe's actually in pain.
But I think
she's really holding up well
because she knows
that this is her week to shine.
And I don't think
she would give it up for anything.
(tense music playing)
Oh, I'm glad
to see you're working.
After learning a number
and not finishing it,
she forgot her dance
and stayed out on stage
with a blank look on her face.
I knew Maddie was about to crack.
I never had that opportunity
to tell Maddie that.
We never discussed
you forgetting your dance
and running off the stage.
MADDIE: I don't really know
what happened to me in New Jersey.
I kind of just blanked out
and I forgot all the moves
and just ran off stage.
It's my reputation.
Do you know that dance?
I made you do it again, could you do it?
-My solo?
-ABBY: Uh-huh.
I want to see
Maddie's "Heart" solo.
if she can do this number.
(piano music playing)
ABBY: Watching Maddie
rehearse this routine
really makes me want to see her
do it on stage.
I've put a lot of time
into this choreography
and I know that this is going to be
a winning routine for Maddie.
(applause)
ABBY: I want you prepared
to do this number anywhere,
any time, any place.
Because, when you least expect it,
I'm going to throw you
out there to do it.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: So remember, girls,
competition starts right now.
Got it? All right.
Let's go, girls.
NexStar is pretty much
what I thought it would be.
It's one of those competitions
that people bring
tons and tons of numbers to.
Lots of money is spent there,
and it's an all day long affair.
KELLY: Okay. What's first?
Do we know?
-The group...
-GIANNA: Solos.
-KELLY: ...or the trio?
-GIANNA: Trio. Trio.
ABBY: All right. Listen, guys,
you need to get fired up.
You need to get out there.
I think we have a chance.
I'm watching what's out there.
Now, I could be wrong.
It might be novice
because it was really--
-it was bad.
-Yeah.
ABBY: Upon arrival, I'm looking
at the program and Maddie is listed.
We originally had sent
an entry in for her to do a solo.
She always does a solo.
Come here.
Remember how I told you that in pyramid,
that I had entered her solo
and then I canceled it
because of what happened last time?
-Uh-huh.
-ABBY: It's still in there.
Okay.
CHRISTI: I knew it.
I knew there was no way
that Abby and Melissa
could go through a competition
without letting Maddie have a solo.
It's so frustrating because it puts
so much more pressure on Chloe.
Because now Chloe's looking at it
thinking that she's not enough
to lead this team.
I scratch her,
it looks really bad.
-She doesn't know it.
-So I think she has to dance.
Chances are, they are going
to announce contestant number
whatever, Maddie, is a scratch.
Then the whole auditorium
and every kid here dancing
are going to know
that you were supposed to do something
and you chose not to do it.
I know you have a tummy ache.
But what if you did a Broadway show
eight times a week?
Would you call in sick tonight
or would you go?
Next week I'll do it.
Next week?
But next week
you're not in the program.
We don't know
who gets to dance next week.
I think next week I will.
Miss Abby me to do my solo.
And I really want to do it
because I don't want to make her mad.
But I haven't been so confident.
I just--in the back of my mind
I always say,
I can't forget this dance.
I don't want to be distracted.
I can't lose place or anything.
You know I believe in you,
that I don't think you're a big failure.
Yeah?
You have to believe in yourself, though.
So maybe you could go later.
This has to do with the reputation
that precedes us.
You know, when Abby enters a student,
they are backstage.
They're prepared,
they're ready to go on.
So when they say
that the kid is scratched,
it just makes all of us look bad.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER 1: All right.
Give it up for contestant number 162.
(dramatic music playing)
PAIGE: I'm a little bit nervous
for the trio
because this is my first time
doing it with Brooke.
And if I make a mistake,
Abby will yell at me.
ANNOUNCER 1: All right,
ladies and gentlemen,
put your hands together
for Girls in the House.
(cheering and applause)
WOMAN: Yay!
Wooh!
SINGER 1: ♪Oh! ♪
♪Yeah! ♪
♪Been watching the clock tick away ♪
♪From one up to two and then three ♪
♪I just want to get out ♪
SINGER 2: ♪Let's go out, out ♪
♪Let's go out, out ♪
-SINGER 1: ♪Right now ♪
-SINGER 2: ♪Work it out, now, now ♪
♪Work it out, now, now ♪
SINGER 1: ♪So get your glamour on ♪
♪And let's go do it
before I lose my mind ♪
♪Let's rock this good time
and live the high live ♪
♪Girls in the house! ♪
♪Come live the glory ♪
♪Let's tell a story! ♪
♪Girls in the house! ♪
-♪'Cause tonight... ♪
-SINGER 2: ♪Tonight ♪
SINGER 1: ♪Is some night! ♪
♪Life's a beach ♪
-♪So let's go hit the lights ♪
-Kick, Paige.
♪And like a tiger we'll bring the fire ♪
♪We'll be the girls
in the house tonight ♪
(cheering and applause)
(upbeat music playing)
I think the trio went really well
except I forgot a kick.
And... I'm going to get a lot of trouble.
Paige, do you know you forgot a step?
You did? What happened?
Well, don't laugh about it.
It's not funny.
You can't go out there and not do
the choreography you were given.
CHRISTI: After the trio, Abby walks in.
And, of course, she blames Paige.
Paige is the original fall guy.
Abby comes in, you didn't kick your leg.
And, apparently,
if you don't kick your leg,
that is the end of the world
in the Abby Lee Dance Company.
Paige00 Armageddon, it's upon you.
You didn't kick.
I don't think we're not going to win
because she missed a kick.
I think we're going to lose
because the choreography wasn't
like the ones--
like, before us, just from what I saw.
I saw two dances and they were amazing.
You saw a duet?
Well, I didn't see what you saw,
so I don't know.
All right, well, that's it.
Mother knows best.
Does it feel better when you win
or does it feel better when you lose?
-Win.
-When you win.
So don't go out there
and make any mistakes.
You love the dance,
it's cute, it looks great.
If you don't win we'll blame it
on your mother's stirrup feet.
MELISSA: (laughs)
I'm really nervous about my solo
because I might forget the moves.
Abby would totally yell at me
if I forgot this dance.
ANNOUNCER 1: 163.
Entry 163.
We invite up on the stage, Mackenzie--
(cheering and applause)
SINGER: ♪The perfect fit,
just how you like it ♪
♪It's obvious you know it's right ♪
♪Yeah, the perfect fit ♪
♪Search high and low
for just the right match ♪
♪Yeah ♪
♪And only you really know ♪
♪What you need to have ♪
♪ Ooh, you've got the perfect fit ♪
♪Just how you like it ♪
♪How it makes you feel inside ♪
MELISSA: Woo! Oh, keep going.
WOMAN: Oh, keep going.
MacKenzie slipped on her sleeve
and she got hurt.
(ominous music playing)
She forgot.
MELISSA: That's okay. That's okay.
PAIGE: Me and Holly were sitting there.
She definitely worked it.
I fell
-and then I got hurt.
-It's okay.
Are you okay? What did you hurt?
It hurt so I got off stage.
It hurt so you got off stage. Okay.
She hurt her leg,
and she tried to stay out there.
And she tried to keep dancing.
And I'll tell you what, she was in pain.
Maddie, tell her how good she did.
ABBY: Melissa, when you're finished
with her, send her over.
MELISSA: Okay.
-Okay. Go ahead. Don't cry.
-It hurts.
Okay, go ahead. Just go.
ABBY: Listen to me.
I don't want to look at this sad,
horrible kid all day.
Yes? So put a smile on your face.
So you're lucky.
Accidents happen. Oh, well.
-Yes?
-Mm-hmm.
I hate being the good guy.
I'd rather just yell at you
for running off.
Maddie, come put this costume on
for me, please.
If you're feeling better later on,
you're doing that dance.
I'm putting my foot down. Got it?
So keep going over it
when you get the chance.
MADDIE: Miss Abby wants me to do my solo
from New Jersey.
I didn't want to make her mad or anything,
but I don't really feel comfortable.
ABBY: All right, listen to me.
It's your decision.
You were put in.
You paid the entrance fee.
I automatically assumed,
which was wrong of me,
that you would be doing a solo this week.
After what happened
at the last competition
I said, too much pressure.
She's not going to do anything
this week with the group.
Let her get her head back on straight,
that's fine.
Fine. Now we get here,
it's still in the program.
I had Maddie run that number again
in the dressing room
I forced the kid to do it.
So it's your decision,
we just need to know.
I don't want to make you mad,
but I'm just, like,
-feel like I'm not ready.
-ABBY: Okay.
-That's fine.
-I'm sorry.
ABBY: I'm sure it's a confidence issue
with Maddie.
I think she feels like a failure.
(upbeat music playing)
(cheering and applause)
Now, Chloe, remember you're in California.
We don't know these girls.
I keep telling you,
it's tough getting to the top.
It's even harder to stay there.
CHRISTI: I think Abby tries
to say Chloe out
by saying, you know,
there's so much pressure on you.
It's your dance. It's my name.
It's my reputation.
You know, let the kid do her thing.
Stop putting pressure on her,
and then she won't crack.
(whispering) You have to believe
in yourself.
I can't do that for you.
You know it.
If you forget, make something up.
-Okay?
-Okay.
Look, I know you're not going to forget.
CHLOE: I Think that Maddie
kind of froze on stage
because there was a lot
of pressure on her.
And she always has a solo every week,
and it was just a lot going on.
I mean, we've all frozen on stage,
so we all know what it feels like.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Okay.
Give it up for contestant 162.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: All right.
Coming at you next...
CHRISTI: Anybody--
somebody want to tell me?
ANNOUNCER: Put your hands together
for Maddie with In My Heart.
(applause)
CHRISTI: Do I need to change her
for the trio?
MELISSA: Don't. Don't. Don't. No, sit.
Sit down. Don't do it. Don't--
MADDIE: Hearing the announcer call my name
made me feel really bad.
I don't want to let anyone down.
KELLY: They'll get somebody different.
She's sick.
It's hard when you feel two ways
about something.
Because I don't really want to do it
because I don't think I'm ready for it,
but I think I should do it anyways.
It's okay. Maddie, stop.
Honey, you're sick.
She's sick.
ABBY: They announce her.
They didn't even know she was scratched.
They don't know I took care of it.
It went from bad
to the worst it could have been.
ANNOUNCER: We actually need a new entry...
MELISSA: It's okay.
It's okay, honey.
ANNOUNCER: ...177.
Entry 177.
Put your hands together for Chloe
with Keep Burning.
(cheering and applause)
CHRISTI: This week's competition
is really going to be hard for us.
We're at a competition
we don't know anything about.
Chloe's dancing in an age category
that she's very much
at the bottom of that age.
And these kids have been practicing
these dances for months.
Like, truth be told, the stakes
are really stacked against us.
(dramatic music playing)
SINGER: ♪I'll tend to the home fires ♪
♪ While you are away ♪
♪ Follow your heart's desires ♪
♪ Don't go astray ♪
♪ Know why you're here ♪
♪ Feel the warmth of the flame ♪
♪ I hold you dear, darling ♪
♪ Don't forget, I'll keep on burning ♪
When I'm watching Chloe dance,
I really think
that she kind of internalized
that whole girl on fire.
She was very serious,
but she was still fluid and beautiful.
And I actually really enjoyed this solo.
It was one of my favorite solos
Chloe has done.
SINGER: ♪ Go where you need to go ♪
♪ Don't worry over the flames ♪
♪ I'll keep on burning ♪
(cheering and applause)
WOMAN: (indistinct) Chloe!
CHLOE: I just felt pretty good
about my solo.
And...
I mean, I can't go back out
and do it again,
so if I don't do so good this week,
I'll try and do it next week.
(upbeat music playing)
Levels, Nia.
Posture right there, girls!
Don't hunch those shoulders!
Get your elbows and reach them back.
MELISSA: We're in the green room
and the girls are running their number.
And Abby is screaming at them.
And she said,
you really need to sell this on stage.
Now, come on!
You are how hold?
You've been told that
10 times today. Think!
MELISSA: Because I think she realizes
the choreography is just watered down.
Um, and...
you know, I'm definitely a little worried
about this on stage.
All right, girls, let's think about this.
Can have everyone's attention?
Remember, you're California girls.
You're from Beverly Hills.
You're shopping.
You're snobby.
All right, I think
we need to head on over.
People at NexStar,
they don't know my kids.
They don't know my reputation.
They don't know anything
about the Abby Lee Dance Company.
That concerns me.
When you hit that stage,
I want to see a leader.
-I want to see confidence.
-Okay.
ABBY: You are not a top 10 dancer.
You are a top three dancer.
And if you would've done your solo,
my name would have been up there.
Understand? Yes?
Come back, Maddie.
MADDIE: I didn't do my solo.
But I did the group dance
because I didn't want
to let those girls down.
And I didn't want to let Miss Abby down.
ANNOUNCER: 227.
Entry 2-2-7.
Put your hands together for I Want it Now.
(cheering and applause)
(upbeat music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Some things glitter,
but they don't ever come for free ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Some things shimmer,
especially when they're on me ♪
Yay, Paige.
Good job, girls. We got it.
SINGER: ♪ Baby, no doubt ♪
♪ I never wear the same thing twice ♪
♪ But if your wish is all my kisses,
♪ Boy, you'll have to pay the price ♪
♪ Because I want it all
wrapped up in time ♪
♪ I want the world ♪
♪ I'm going to make it mine ♪
♪ Whatever is hot, sparkle and shine ♪
♪ I want it now ♪
ABBY: The group number is cute.
I just don't know how far cute
is going to get us
here in California.
SINGER: ♪ I want it now ♪
♪ I want it now ♪
(cheering and applause)
CHRISTI: I thought
the group number did well.
Did they do well by California standards?
I don't know.
ANNOUNCER: Let's hear it
for the dance teachers.
(applause)
ANNOUCER: Top 10 Eight and Under Solos--
10th Place.
10th Place goes to entry number 163,
If the Shoe Fits.
(applause)
MELISSA: I think that
she had a really good chance
of winning this competition.
However, she fell, so--
I really don't think that people realize
she didn't do her whole dance.
ANNOUNCER: Eight and Under Soloists,
wonderful job.
Congratulations.
Nine to 11 Soloists, top five.
Fifth place goes to entry number 177,
Keep Burning.
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: My overall assessment
of Chloe's solo
would have to be fair to good.
She went out on stage,
she did the choreography
as it was given to her, basically.
ANNOUNCER: Final high scores--
top five Nine to 11 Duet/Trios--
fourth place, entry number 161,
Love, Love, Love.
Third place is going to go
to entry number 162,
Girls in the House.
(applause)
CHRISTI: Considering all the things
that the trio had working against them--
you know, bad costumes,
bad choreography, bad music--
I thought that Chloe, Brooke,
and Paige really did well
with what they had to work with.
Nine to 11 Small Groups, top five--
I'm going to start with fifth place.
(tense music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Entry number 227,
I Want it Now.
(cheering and applause)
KELLY: I thought the girls were great
in the group number.
I thought that they showed
their personalities.
I thought that,
you know, they looked entitled.
If you would all take a big bow
to the audience--
our top five Nine to 11 Small Groups.
ABBY: The competition didn't go well.
Fifth place, are you kidding me?
Fifth place?
We didn't come all this way
to be fifth place.
We might as well have stayed home.
Mackenzie was my only student
to receive an overall first place award.
Those two other teams,
they really showed us up.
-CHRISTI: (gasps) I want it all.
-Good job!
High five! I thought it was perfect!
You did great.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Girls, come on.
I want to talk to you.
Moms, I came, I flew 3,000 miles,
did everything
I was supposed to do for that?
Really?
You started out great.
Your individual parts were wonderful.
As soon as you had to dance together
as a group...
(whooshes) to hell in a handbasket.
KELLY: Okay. But why can't we--
Look at your daughter! She's 14 years old!
She couldn't do the turns in second!
Her knees bent!
-KELLY: Okay. So work on them with her.
-ABBY: She's late!
-ABBY: Come to class!
-You only--you only give them
practice with their turns.
-Give me other two who are in the group.
-She's in the same studio
with the same teachers!
-Work on it with them! You sit there!
-Girls, go--go in here.
-Work on it with them!
-Go in here, love.
ABBY: Okay, honey, right now let's go.
-Go ahead!
-Thity-two fouettes.
Go! Go!
-Go!
-Well, obviously she can't do 32 fouettes.
-She can't do one!
-HOLLY: Girls...
-Work on it with them. You're her teacher.
-HOLLY: ...out.
ABBY: Kelly, don't be so stupid
all the time!
-KELLY: I'm not stupid, Abby.
-ABBY: Yes, you are!
KELLY: Don't you be a bad teacher!
-I put the the dances in it!
-HOLLY: Girls!
CHRISTI: I find it so insulting
that Abby came into the room
and told our kids
that they weren't committed.
Those kids bust their butts for her.
I'm not happy with what I saw!
KELLY: Ask every single one of these women
who have been sitting out there
watching choreography.
Yours sucks.
You know nothing, Kelly!
KELLY: I definitely think
that Abby's choreography
is getting stale.
I think she's been doing this
for too long.
Maybe I need to go somewhere else,
me and Christi.
Christi and I, you idiot!
-Christi and I!
-Oh, (bleep) you.
-CHRISTI: Oh, my god.
-You've lost it, Abby.
You've been doing it too long.
You're stale.
My stale is better
than your best day will ever be.
(laughter)
Look in the mirror, girlfriend.
Look in the mirror.
Please.
Don't eat me, Abby. Don't eat me.
-CHRISTI: You know what?
-KELLY: (laughs)